\subsection{Recommendation Based on VFPU}To tackle the UDD-PU learning problem, we propose the VFPU algorithm, which combines a vertical federated learning framework with PU learning techniques. VFPU addresses the issue of Party A's insufficient unlabeled samples and enhances the recommendation model's performance. 

In this paper, the recommendation process based on the VFPU includes three primary steps: data preprocessing, encrypted sample alignment, and the execution of the VFPU algorithm. The primary goal of VFPU is to identify reliable positive samples within the unlabeled dataset. These samples allow the model to gain a deeper understanding of positive instance attributes, resulting in more accurate and personalized product recommendations for Party A. Simultaneously, we ensure data privacy and collaboration among multiple parties. \autoref{fig:VFPU} illustrates the recommendation process. The detailed steps in the process will be elaborated in the following sections.

\subsubsection{Data preprocessing and encrypted sample alignment}

\begin{enumerate}[label=(\arabic*)]
	\item Data preprocessing

We apply various preprocessing techniques to the data held by parties A, B, and C, including data cleaning, normalization, and feature encoding. Categorical features are handled using one-hot encoding, while numerical features are normalized using standardized scaling.
	\item Encrypted sample alignment

After data preprocessing, the three parties securely perform the sample alignment process in the following two steps:
	\begin{itemize}
		\item Step 1: Party B and party C align their sample ID spaces, retaining only the samples that both parties share and discarding the unaligned ones respectively. As a result, party B and party C now share the same samples but different features.
		\item Step 2: Party A and party C align their sample ID spaces without removing any samples. Aligned samples are those that appear in both parties’ datasets. Based on the alignment, aligned samples in party C are assigned with the label of 1, indicating positive samples. Meanwhile, unaligned samples in party C receive a label of -1, indicating unlabeled samples.
	\end{itemize}
\end{enumerate}

After the encrypted sample alignment, party C holds both positive and unlabeled samples. This process effectively transforms the UDD-PU recommendation problem into a vertical federated training scenario with the PU prohlem between party B and party C. 

To protect data privacy during the sample alignment process, we utilize the Blind RSA-based Private Set Intersection (PSI) protocol \cite{de2010practical}. This protocol enables all parties to securely compute the intersection of their datasets without revealing any additional information about the samples they hold. With the completion of these tasks, the datasets are now ready for the execution of the VFPU algorithm.



这是我用latex撰写的论文，仔细阅读并理解，在不修改原本格式和含义的基础上，尽可能地丰富内容，扩充文字、因为我的学术论文对字数有严格要求。



